# (Assignment) NSTP and Good Citizenship

| Due Date           | Oct 08, 2021 |
| Due Time           | 07:00        |
| Mode of Submission | Recitation   |

1. Discuss the NSTP Law.
2. How can you describe/define a good citizen?
3. What are your basis, when you called a person that he/she is a good citizen?
4. In today's generation, are we a good citizen in our country, why or why not?
5. What are your right as a Filipino? Do practice it well?
6. How responsible you are as a citizen to our beloved country?

## Submission

1. The National Service Training Program of 2001 or formally know as R.A 9163 affirms that the prime duty of the government shall be to serve and protect its citizens. In turn, it shall be the responsibility of its citizens to defend the security of the state. In pursuits of this goals:
   1. The youth shall be motivated, trained, organized, and mobilized in military, literacy, civic welfare, and other similar endeavors in service to the nation.
   2. All male and female students enrolled in any baccalaureate are required to complete the equivalent of 2 semester of NSTP Common Module for the period of at least 25-hours and any one of the NSTP components as a requisite for graduation.
   3. State Universities are required to offer ROTS and at least one other NSTP Component.
2. According to the preamble of the 1987 constitution a good citizen is:
   * Faithful in God (Makadiyos)
   * Just and Humane (Makatao)
   * United and patriot (Makabansa)
3. For me I think a good citizen must pledge his/her allegiance to the Philippine Flag meaning he/she must follow the 4 core values of a Pilipino which is to love:
   * God (Makadiyos)
   * People (Makatao)
   * Nature (Makalikasan)
   * Country (Makabansa)
4. Going by my standard of a good citizen, I still do think that Pilipino are very patriotic as they are very proud and supportive to those who represent our country (like in international sports or events). Pilipino are very faithful in God going as far as believing that praying to God is enough to be immune against diseases. But I don't think modern day Pilipino are either a nature Lover or a country lover. So I don't think that our generation, by definition, is a good citizen.
5. We Pilipino are very lucky as we have a lot of constitutional rights written in the bill of rights. But I think that most important ones are the on listed int the first section of Article III of the 1987 constitution which is that no person shall be deprived of life, liberty, or property without due process of the law. I do think that I am exercising my rights pretty well.
6. I personally do not consider myself as a good citizen as I do not take active steps to improve my country. Of course I am a lawful citizen but I don't think that is enough to warrant myself to be called a good citizen.
