# The nature of mathematics

## What is mathematics
Mathematics is derived ancient Greek word *manthanein* which means "to learn".

* We need to study the basic foundation of mathematics
* We would apply topics we will study in our day to day life
* It is language that uses carefully decided terms and symbols

## How math is applied
* Routine calculation are application of arithmetic.
* The heart of mathematics is more than numbers.
* Numbers are often meaningless.

## Patterns and numbers in nature

### Pattern
* A pattern are regular, repeated, or recurring forms or designs.
* Pattern helps students identify relationship or connection to make generalization and prediction.

### Symmetry
Symmetry are patterns

* Types of symmetry
* Rotational 
  * Depend of the number of side or faces that are symmetrical
  * Even if you rotate it would still be the same. 
* Bilateral
  * Left and right portion are mirror of each other
  * If you mirror it on a certain axis it would still be same
* Spiral
  * Spiral emanates an origin

### Fractal
A never ending pattern. Infinitely complex patterns that are self-similar across different scale. They are created by repeating a simple process over and over in an ongoing feedback loop.

### Affine Transformation
These are the processes of rotation, reflection, and scaling. Many plant forms utilize these process to generate their structure.

### Other patterns
* Meander
* Waves
* Foams
* Tesselations

[Presentation Slides](modules/TheNatureOfMathematics.pdf)
