# Software and Peopleware

## Software

If hardware is the tangible parts of the computer system then software is the intangible parts.

* Software is defined as the programs that control the computer system. Software includes the operating system, system utilities and computer language

* Parts of Software
  * Program
  * Data

### Types of software
1. Application software - Perform useful word on general purpose tasks.
2. System software - Includes all programs that help the computer function properly.

#### Application Software
1. Document production software
   * Word Processing Software - It has replaced typewriter for producing documents such as reports, letters, papers, and manuscripts, Word processing software gives you the ability to create, spell-check, edit, and format a document on the screen before you commit it to the paper.
     * MS Word, Notepad, WordPad
2. Desktop Publishing Software - It provides more sophisticated features to help you produce  professional-quality output for newspaper, newsletters, brochures, magazines, and books.
   * MS Publisher, Adobe Pagemaker, Print Artist
3. Web Authoring Software - Helps you design and develop customized Web pages that you can publish electronically on the Internet.
   * Dreamweaver, MS Frontpage
5. Spreadsheet Software
   * A spreadsheet uses rows and columns of number to create a model or representation of a real situation.
     * MS Excel
6. Data Management Software 
   * It helps you to store find, organize, update, and report information
   * DBMS is designed for creating and manipulating files that for am database. It is very important tool for business, government, and educational institution
     * MS Access, MySQL, Oracle, Visual Foxpro
7. Graphics Software
   * In computer lingo, the term graphics refers to any picture, drawing, sketch, photograph, image, or icon that appears on your screen.
   * Help you create, display, modify, manipulate, and print graphics
   * Paint software - sometimes called "image editing software" provide a set of electronic pens, brushes, and paints for painting images on the screen.
     * Adobe Photoshop, Paint, MS Picture Manager
   * Photo Editing software - Designed to fix poor quality photos by modifying contrast and brightness, cropping out unwanted objects, and removing "red eye" 
   * Drawing software - Provides a set of lines, shapes, and colors that can be assembled into diagrams, corporate logos, and schematics
   * 3D graphics software - Provides a set of tools for creating "wireframes" that represent three-dimensional objects
     * CAD software (Computer-Aided Design)
7. Audio Editing Software
   * Audio editing software typically includes playback as well as recording capabilities.
     * Ear Training software - Targets musicians and music students who want to play by ear, to develop tuning skills, recognizes notes and keys, and develop other musical skills.
     * Notation Software - It is the musician's equivalent of a word processor.
     * Computer-aided music software - Is used by non-musicians that helps generate unique musical composition by simply selecting musical style, instrument, key and tempo,
     * MIDI Sequencing software - It is an important part of the studio musician's toolbox.
8. Video Editing Software
   * It provides a set of tools for transferring video footage from a camcorder to a computer, clipping out unwanted footage, assembling video segments in any sequence, adding special visual effects and adding a soundtrack
9. Education and Reference Software
   * It helps you learn and practice new skills.
     * Encarta Encyclopedia

#### System software
1. Operating System
   * The most import type of system software
   * The operating system is designed to word a specific type of hardware, such as PC or Macintosh
   * Its most important role lies in coordinating the various functions of the computer's hardware.
   * The operating system also provides support for running application software
2. Utility Programs
   * Utility programs are generally used to support, enhanced, or expand existing program in a computer system
     * Antivirus software
     * System profiler
3. Disk defragmenters
   * Disk defragmenters
   * Disk checker
   * Disk cleaner
4. Device Driver
   * Helps the computer control a peripheral device.
     * Driver for sound and video cards
     * Drivers for motherboards
     * Driver for peripheral devices
5. Language Translators
   * Assembler - translate symbolic instruction codes of programs into a machine language.
     * TASM
   * Compiler - translates high level language statement of a program into machine language instruction the computer can execute.
   * Interpreter - a special type of compiler that translates one statement at a time.

## Peopleware
* They are the users of the computers
  * System analyst
  * Programmer

<input type="number" min="0" max="255" step="1">
<div id="test">
</div>
<script>
</script
