# Activation Prior Knowledge

## What is the computer?

A machine that process data

## Differentiate data from information

Data are raw quantitative figures or fact while information are useful insight of analyzing data

## What are the four basic function of the computer?
* Fetch data
* Process Data -> Store Data
* Output information

# Computer

## What is a Computer?
* By modern definition, a computer is an electronic device that accepts (inputs), processes, stores, and outputs data at high speed according to programmed instructions.

* A computer is made up of five basic elements
    * Electronic - Runs on electricity
    * Programmable - follow set of instruction
    * Storage - store huge amount of data
    * Retrieve - access stored data
    * Process - transform or manipulate data

# Data vs Information

* Data - raw, unprocessed facts.
* Information - processed data

# Functions of Computer

* Input - feeding or entering data
* Process - manipulating and transforming data
* Output - result of processing
* Storage - save data and retrieve for later

# Capabilities and Limitation

## Capabilities

1. It can process data quickly.
2. It can perform operations tirelessly.
3. It can give accurate results depending on the instructions and commands given.
4. It can store, recall, and retrieve information.
5. It can confirm and verify the accuracy of the information.
6. It can perform multi-tasks.

## Limitations

1. It needs human intervention.
2. It has a short life span.
3. It cannot formulate information on its own.
4. The information or results generated are user dependent.
5. It can never replace the capabilities of the human.

[Presentation Slides](modules/Module1_Intro.pdf)
