# Operating System

## What is Operating Systems?
- It is the most important program that runs on a computer
- It is responsible for the management and coordination of activities and the sharing of the resources of the computer.
- Helps in controlling and managing the hardware and the software resources of a computer system.
- Enables the computer hardware to communicate with the computer system

## Operating Systems is also
- A **magician** - provides each user with the illusion of a dedicated machine with infinite memory and CPU time.
- A **government** - allocates resources efficiently and fairly, protect users from each other, provides safe and secure communication.
- A **parent** - always there when you need it, never breaks, always succeeds
- A **fast food restaurtant** - provides a service everyone needs
- A **complex system** - but keeps is as simple as possible so that it will work

## Function of OS
- **Job Management** - Manages the jobs waiting to be processed
- **Batch Processing** - Data are accumulated and processed in groups
- On-line Processing - 
- Data Management
- Virtual Storage
- I/O Management - Manage input to and output from a computer system

## Different OS Implementation

### Microsoft Windows
- Is a series of software operating systems produced by Microsoft
  - Windows - A trademark for any of a series of GUI system
- MS Windows is the most prominent proprietary operating system.
  - Proprietary software are software with set restrictions on use, private modification, copying, or republishing
  - Free software can be used, copied, studied, modified, and redistributed with little or no restriction.

#### Windows Desktop Timeline
- November 10, 1983 - Microsoft announced Windows an extension of the MS-DOS that would provide GUI
- 1985 - The very first version of windows which is windows 1.0
- 1987 - Windows 2.0 improved graphics support, users could now overlap windows, control screen layout, and use keyboard combination to move rapidly through Windows operations.
- 1990 - Windows 3.0 advanced graphics with 16 colors, and fell support of the powerful Intel 386 processor
- 1993 - Windows NT (New Technology) 3.1 with support for high-end, client server communicaiton
- 1993 - Windows for Workgroups 3.11 - Added peer-to-peer workgroup using LAN
- 1994 Windows NT Workstation 3.4 high-end applications for software development, engineering, and scientific calculation.
- 1995 Windows 95 successor to the three existing GP desktop operating systems from Microsoft. Integrated 32bit TCP/IP stack for built-in Internet support, dial-up networking, and plug and play capabilities that made it easy for users to install hardware and software.
- 1996 Windows NT Workstation 4.0 
- 1998 Windows 98 - It was the upgrade from windows 95. 
- 1999 Windows 98 second edition - incremental update, first with driver support)
- 2000 Windows Millennium Edition (Me) last based on Windows 95
- 2000 Windows 2000 Professional - Simplified hardware installation
- 2001 Windows Experience (XP) for home users
- 2001 Windows XP Professional enhanced reliability, security, and performance, with fresh visual design.
- 2001 Windows XP Home edition
- 2002 Windows XP Tablet PC edition
- January 30, 2007 Windows Vista new set of security protocols which affect installing and running software

### Linux Operating System
- Linux is an operating system that is a typical example of free software and open source development.
- The Linux is a multitasking, multi-user operating system. This differs MS-DOS, where only one person can use system at any time.
- Linux is the most secure operating system
- Started by Linux Torvalds in 1991 and can be downloaded from a number of sites

### UNIX Operating system
- UNIX developed in 1969 at Bell Labs AT&T
- As of 2007 the owner of trademark the Open Group

### DOS Operating system
- Disk Operating System. It is an early predecessor of the Windows Operating System.

### MAC Operating System
- Apple's operating system for its line of Macintosh computers
- Darwin is the Unix-like operating system which is Mac is Based on.

### OS for Mobile Devices
- Apple iOS
- Google Android
