# Classifying the Arts

## Activating Prior Knowledge

List down different art works as many as you can,
Then among those arts works mentioned or choose only one which
you think it influences or inspires you most.

* "Bayanihan" by Fernando Amorsolo
* The art of Philippine Embroidery
* Weaving
* Fine dining presentation
* Tinikling (Philippine folk dance)
* Oblation sculpture
* Pottery

## Presentation of Content

According to Webster(1987), Major arts involve man's skills to create works of art that are in form, content, and execution, aesthetically pleasing and meaning as in music, painting, architecture, and sculpture.

## Major Classification of Art by Manaois

### Fine arts or Independent arts
Made principality for aesthetic purposes.
We appreciate it trough our senses.

* "Bayanihan" by Fernando Amorsolo
* Fine dining presentation
* Tinikling (Philippine folk dance)
* Oblation sculpture

### Practical Utilitarian arts
Intended for practical use.
We appreciate it trough how well it work.

* The art of Philippine Embroidery
* Weaving
* Pottery

## Classification of Art by Estolas (1995)

1. Visual Art
   * Art work perceive by our eyes classified into graphic arts and plastic arts.
     * Graphic arts - flat tow-dimensional surface such as painting
     * Plastic arts - visual arts which have three-dimensional forms.
2. Performing Art
   * Involve movement, speaking, and gestures
3. Literary Art
   * Include stories, novels, poetry, and dramas
4. Popular Art
   * Include film, newspaper, magazine, radio, and television.
   * Characterized as gay and lively.
5. Gustatory Art of the Cuisine
   * Food Preparation
7. Decorative Art (Applied arts).
   * Visual object for beautifying structures.

## Sanchez, Abad, and Jao (2001)

1. Visual arts
   * Same as Estalas' it also include graphics and plastic arts.
2. Literature
   * include drama essay, prose fiction, poetry, and other misc.
   * Same as Estolay' literary arts.
3. Music
4. Drama and Theater
5. Dance

## Barrios 

### According to Purpose

1. Practical or Useful Arts
2. Liberal Arts
   * development of intellectual reasoning
     * Mathematics
     * Grammar
     * Astronomy
3. Fine Arts
   * Satisfaction of mind and spirit
4. Major Arts
   * Expresiveness
5. Minor arts
   * Works connected with practical uses

### According to Media and Forms

1. Plastic Arts 
   * Perceived by the sense of sight
2. Phonetics Arts
   * Based on sounds and words as media of expression
3. Kinetic Arts
   * Based on movement
4. Pure Arts
   * Only one medium
5. Mixed Arts
   * More than one medium
