# Introduction and Overview of Arts

## Humanities

* Came from the Latin word *humanos* meaning refined, cultured, and human
  * Study of different cultural aspect of man, frailties in life and how it can be improved
  * records man's quest for answers to the fundamental questions he ask about himself and life.
* **Humanities** are expressions of man's feelings and thoughts
   * Emphasizes dignity and worthiness of man and recognizes creative expressions
   * aimed to shape students subject energies (feelings, attitudes, and aspirations) 
* The term humanities was first applied to the writings of ancient Latin authors more on moral teachings.
* During the Medieval period, it was used for spiritual cultivation of spiritual life.
* During the Renaissance period, it is the set of discipline that study aspects of human society and culture to make human more cultured.
* Nowadays, humanities provide certain skill or values trough arts.
* These are the branches of learning concerned about humans and his feelings.
* Science deals with the external world, while humanities deals with mans internal world.

## Importance of humanities

1. Man needs an image of himself.
2. Understanding of his natures.
3. Necessary for the development of a complete, social, man.
4. Provide man with a with measure of his own passion and desire
5. Regulate man's behaviour

## Etymology of Art

Art is the life blood of humanities. Art is what motivates to create and appreciate the beauty of art.

* Comes from the Aryan root word *Ar* which means to put together
* Come from the Latin word *Ars* which means skills/ability
* Cover those areas of artistic creativity - embraces the visual arts, literature, music and dance
* expresses aesthetic ideas by use of skill and imagination.
* Concious use of skill and creative imagination in production of aesthetic objects.

## Purposes of the Arts

1. Create beauty
2. Provide decoration
3. Reveal truth
4. Immortalize
5. Express religious values
6. Record and commemorate experience
7. Create order and harmony

[Presentation Slides](modules/IntroductionAndOverviewOfArts.pdf)
