# Understanding The arts

## Learning Outcomes
1. Evaluate perspective behind the meaning of art
2. Demonstrate understanding on the basic concepts and assumptions about art
3. Point out work s of art in the past that are still treasured today

## Basic Assumption of the Art
1. Art is everywhere
   * Everything that surrounds you are reflection of how you express yourself which is a form of Art.
2. Art is not nature
   * Nature becomes art when we recreate what we see.
   * It will only be art once we are the one that made it
   * Arts are made by human beings.
   * Artist frequently get inspiration from nature.
   * Nature is also a medium for art.
   * Function of artist is to help us understand nature.
3. Art is imitating and creating
   * When we something in environment we *recreate* it
   * Creation in art is reordering of existing art
   * Artist only copies things from nature that express himself
4. Art perfects nature
   * Art enhance things they like and omits things the don like to express they definition of beauty.
5. Art is universal
   * Art transcend culture, race, civilization.
   * As long as human exist, art is achievable.
6. Art is timeless
   * Art is timeless because it goes beyond the time of our existence.
   * As long as there are people to appreciate it art is timeless
   * It is basic needs of mankind (practical art)
   * But art also change with time.

## Art defines time.
* It identifies the artwork that would click in a particular time.
* "Good deeds are appreciated after death"
 
## Art as expression and communication
* Art has grown out of man's need to express himself.

## Arts and experience
Three major kinds of experience are involved in in the artistic activity.
1. It start as an experience which the artist wants to communicate.
2. The act of expressing this experience that of creating that art object or form.
3. When the work is done, there is the artist's gratifying experience of having accomplished something significant.

## Art and beauty
A thing of beauty is one which gives as pleasure when we perceive it. The delight that we experience is called aesthetic pleasure. 
* Art refers to an interaction between element of arts
  * Line, color, texture, sound, shape, motion, and size
