# Effect of Science and Technology on Society

Society is affected by Science and Technology by:
1. perspective, or mindset, it affects how we see the world
2. it also affects our economic activities, our work habits and conditions
3. they affect our values our behaviour
4. they affect our health and environment
5. it also affect the content, pedagogy, and delivery of our education system.

## How it affect our perspective

* Science and technology affects people as people goes mad when internet goes down. It is an example of how internet become a necessity.
* We are not the ones who control technology, but rather we are the ones enslave. It comes to the point where we can do every thing on internet. Phone addiction is also a good indication of this point.
* The internet mediates and makes all things possible. There are people who feel obligated to publicly announce everything they do on social media. It also mediates our relationship, it can sprout or end form social media. Business is also enhanced by the internet. Government also use internet to inform and monitor us. But internet can also be used for illegal activities referred to as Cybercrimes.
* Our view of the world and our place in it has changed by science and technology. 


## How it affect our economic activities

* Due to science and technology we now have new business model. We now have online banking opposed to tradition backing which is more convenient.
* It also gave us online store which are even to projected to cause tradition stores like mall to die out because it is cheaper, convenient, and faster. It is cheaper because in a traditional store you would pay for bill like electricity and also you would need to pay salary for clerks, security guards, and more.
* Business process outsourcing is also an effect of science and technology where in companies are now able to source jobs to cheaper nation because of advances in communication technology.

## How it affect our values and behaviour
 
* It can be seen in our language and language is a reflection of how we see the world. For example on how we Filipinos are considered to be not exact peoples and it can be seen on how we communicate.
* It also brought new acronyms such as LOL, AFAIK, ATM, ROTLF, ICYMI, and more
* It also brought new statuses such as In a relationship, complicated, and even genders such as LGBTQ.
* Because of developments we are more open to this kinds of new ways of looking at things or behaving. For example LGBTQ before are often shunned now they are more accepted.
* We also expected services to be fast and accessible online because of how internet become part of our needs

## How it affect our health and environment

* Biotechnology have brought as certified seeds which are better that gives more harvest compared to traditional seed with the expense of flexibility because certified seeds often require specific fertilizers and other products.
* Biotech plants can also brought some health and environmental concerns.
* Genetic engineering also brought surrogacy which gives rise to some ethical concerns but it gives as some benefits in humanity.
* Nanotechnology gives as advances in medicine and technology

## How it affect our education system

* Without internet brought by the advent of technology and science, education during this pandemic times would probably have stalled but thanks to it we are able to continue albeit restricted.
* E-Library and E-books also deprecated the use of big building to store bulky books.

## Conclusion

The are more ways technology and society affects our society but it the ones discussed above are the most common ones
